Laboratory Questions
Question 1
You can get man to print out all the commands that have a keyword
in their man page by using the command man -k keyword where keyword
is the specified word you would like to search for. I used the command man man
to solve this problem, by visiting the manual description page to
find the -k command.

Question 2
The cp program is located in /usr/local/cs/bin/cp and the
wc program is located in /usr/local/cs/bin/wc. I first used the command
man -k where to find all the relevant manual pages, which allowed me to
learn about the which command. After reading about the command, I
then used which cp and which wc in order to find the programs in the
file system.

Question 3
The one character programs are
:  No effect, simply expands arguments and performs redirections
.  Read and executes commands from a file in the current shell
w  Show who is logged on and what they are doing
[  Evaluate conditional expressions
I determined this by using the command man find to learn about the find command,
and then by using the command find /usr/bin "?". Then I used the manual pages
to learn about each command.

Question 4
The file that is actually executed by the symbolic link /usr/bin/emacs is
/etc/alternatives/emacs. I first used the command man -k symbolic to first
find any commands that would help me in determining the contents of a
symbolic link. Then I used the command man readlink to learn about this
command, and by using the command readlink emacs, I was able to
determine the file that is actually executed.

Question 5
The symbolic mode g+s gives gives the person accessing the file the
permission of a group for that file and o-x removes execute permission
from other users not in the file’s group. I first used the command man
chmod to learn about the command, and by reading the description I was
able to figure out what this symbolic mode did.

Question 6
The option to find that lets you search for files modified in the last three
weeks is -ctime -21. I used the command man find to learn about the find
command, and by reading the expressions section I was able to figure out how
to search for files within a specified time frame.

Question 7
There are many directories that were modified in the last three weeks. I first
used the command cd / in order to get to the root directory since I would have
to use the find command from the root directory to find all relevant
directories. Then I used the command find -type d -ctime -21, to find all
directories modified in the last three weeks.

Question 8
There are 247 symbolic links in the same directory as find. I first changed to
the /usr/bin directory and used the command ls -l. Then I copied all the files
that started with l, which deonates a symbolic link, and counted how many links
existed.

Question 9
The oldest regular file is libfreeblpriv3.so. I first used the man ls command
to learn about the -lt option, and then used the command ls -lt and looked for
the first oldest regular file.

Question 10
The locale command gets its data based on the settings on the environment
variables that control the locale. I used the command man locale in order to
learn about this.

Question 11
The commands with sort in their name are:
Buffer-menu-sort
sort-columns
sort-fields
sort-lines
sort-numeric-fields
sort-pages
sort-paragraphs
sort-regexp-fields
tabulated-list-col-sort
tabulated-list-sort
I first used the command C-h a to search for commands in emacs through keyword
and then searched for sort.

Question 12
The keystrokes actions are as follows
C-M-a beginning-of-defun: Move back to the beginning of a defun
C-M-b backward-sexp: Move back one balanced expression
C-M-c exit-recursive-edit: Exit from the innermost recursive edit or minibuffer
C-M-d down-list: Move forward one level of parantheses
C-M-e end-of-defun: Move forward to end of defun
C-M-f forward-sexp: Move forward one balanced expression
C-M-h mark-defun: Put mark at end of this defun, point at beginning
I first used the command C-h b and then scrolled down to the section containing
these commands and read about all of them.

Question 13
The Emacs keystroke C-g quits a command by either getting rid of a partially
typed command or stopping a running command in a safe way. I first used the
command emacs to start the application, and then C-h r to access the Emacs
manual. Then I used C-v to scroll down to the key index, and within the key
index I used the command again to scroll to the description page for C-g.

Question 14
The yank function reinserts text that was previously killed. The basic yanking
command inserts the most recent kill and leaves the cursor at the end of the
inserted text. I first used the command emacs to start the application, and
then C-h r to access the Emacs manual. Then I used C-v to scroll down to the
command index, and within the command index I used the command again to scroll
to the description page for yank.

Question 15
The difference is that the emacs dired command also gives us the current and
parent directory information whereas ls -l does not. I determined this by first
changing directories to /usr/bin and then running the command ls -l to get the
first output. Then I ran the commands emacs, C-h b, C-s dired, C-x d to get the
second output and compared them together.
